
Selecting the outfit your baby will wear home from the hospital is one of the most fun parts of expecting a baby. Your baby will wear this special outfit when she meets the great, big world and there are sure to be lots of photos. With all the cute newborn clothes out there, choosing just one adorable outfit may not be easy, though.
Tips for Choosing the Outfit
Here are things to keep in mind to ensure the baby's homecoming outfit is comfortable, travels well, and looks great in pictures.
Consider the Season
Infants usually need to wear one additional layer of clothing over what adults would wear, except when it's very hot. Think about what season it will be when the baby arrives, and plan the type of outfit accordingly.
If you'll need to be outside in the cold, baby's going-home outfit should also fit easily inside a sweater or thin jacket. You can keep baby warm with extra blankets. You should have a warm hat. If it's hot, a single layer of clothing is fine, but you may still want to buy a coordinating sun hat or shade blanket to protect your baby's skin.
Remember, Comfort Is Key
Babies have sensitive skin,1 so newborn clothes must have soft, breathable fabrics and stretchy arm, leg, and neck openings. If elastic is used to gather the openings, make sure it's not too tight, and that there's a layer of fabric between the baby's skin and the elastic, to avoid irritation. Make sure snaps and buttons are attached well and won't scratch.
It's normal to want to dress baby up in something fancy, but remember that overly fussy dress clothes often aren't comfortable, so don't be swayed by ruffles and grown-up details if the clothes aren't also soft and comfy.
Check Sizes Carefully
It's hard to know how big your baby will be at birth, but in general, newborn size is appropriate for coming home from the hospital. Many parents try to buy baby clothes in slightly bigger sizes in hopes that their baby will be able to wear special clothes for a longer time. This is a great strategy when the baby is a bit older, but for newborns, a few pounds can make a big difference in how clothes fit and look.
Buying a too-big size will likely make your look like she is swimming in her special outfit. Look at the weight ranges on the sizing tags and go by those rather than age ranges. No two brands fit the same, so always check the tag and compare clothing brands in the store to see if it seems to run big or small. Newborn babies have floppy heads and curled-up limbs that are used to being in cramped quarters.2 Look for head openings that get wider with snaps or buttons. Legs and arm fabric should have enough stretch to work stiff, little limbs through.
And, of course will be necessary, so make sure the outfit has snap openings or easy-to-remove bottoms. Double-check that the clothing is machine washable.
Pick Something Simple
On babies' tiny bodies, clothes with lots of details and huge adornments tend to look out of place. Simple clothes in solid colors or fairly low-key patterns tend to look best on newborns. These types of outfits also tend to photograph well, so the baby will be ready to smile (or snooze) for the cameras on the way home.