
Your baby is getting bigger and stronger all the time. She knows the difference between strangers and familiar faces, which may mean separation anxiety is a bit stronger. Babies this age often show more signs of affection than they did when they were young infants. For instance, it may make your heart melt when your baby stretches out her arms for you to pick her up or wraps her little arms around your neck.
Social and Emotional Development
Many 8 month olds are learning to imitate moods. For example, if she sees another baby cry or yell, she may follow suit. She is also learning more about cause and effect. This and better control over her hands may mean throwing or dropping toys is her new favourite hobby. Babies this age also enjoy exploring objects by doing a variety of things, such as banging or shaking them. Be sure to give your baby different toys to play with.
Communication
Your little one's communication skills are continuing to develop. Your baby is still making lots of different sounds and you may even hear a "ma-ma." Although Dad, you probably heard a distinct "da-da." Your baby may also start to get an idea of what she likes and dislikes. For example, she may have a favourite toy and let you know she is not too happy about you taking it away.
Motor Skills
At eight months, your baby may be getting pretty good at crawling and getting around. She may also be able to pull herself up to a standing position and stand supported. Some babies also start cruising at eight months. Cruising involves taking little, sliding steps while holding on to whatever she can for support. It's natural to try to protect your baby from getting hurt when she gets wobbly and tumbles. But by letting your baby try to stand up and take a step, you're building her strength and confidence. Try to remember, all babies are different. Avoid comparing your little one to your friend's baby. If you or your partner are concerned about how your baby is developing, talk to your baby's paediatrician.
Eating
By eight months, your baby may be a pro at handling puréed foods and may be ready for chunkier foods. Expand her menu by adding new foods that require a little more chewing. If you are breastfeeding and wondering when to wean, do what works for you. You can breastfeed for as long as you want to. Although it can vary, some babies are so excited over solid food, they show less of an interest in breastfeeding or formula feeding. However, breast milk or formula should remain their main drink for the first year.
Sleeping
Your baby's sleeping habits may be pretty similar to what they were at seven months. Some babies this age may be down to two naps a day and may sleep about 12 or 13 hours at night. If your baby has separation anxiety, nap and bedtime maybe a bit more of a struggle. Being consistent in your routine and understanding this phase won't last forever may help.