
At 11 months, your baby's behaviour may seem a bit contradictory. On the brink of her first birthday, she wants to explore the world around her and test her independence. But at other times, she may cling to you and cry if you leave the room.
Social and Emotional Development
By 11 months, babies often have strong likes and dislikes, and they aren't afraid to let you know. Don't be surprised if your baby cries or screams in frustration if she does not get her way. She may also be uncooperative at times. It's a normal part of development as your baby learns to assert herself. It's not too early to reinforce good behaviours and set some limits. Your baby may have a longer attention span, which means she may be able to play longer. She may also be starting to engage in pretend and may imitate things you do, such as talking on the phone or brushing your hair.
Communication
Although your baby has been "talking" for months by babbling and making sounds, she might be starting to use some real words. Research shows babies often say their first word between 11 and 14 months. Dad, tell Mom not to take offense if your little one says dada before mama. The "D" sound is often easier for babies than the "M" sound. If your baby is not using words yet, don't worry. Babies develop at different rates. Just keep talking to your baby to boost her communications skills. Remember, babies learn best when they master skills at their own pace.
Motor Skills
At 11 months, your baby may not like being confined in a stroller or swing. After all, her mobility is improving, and she wants to be out and about. Many babies can cruise pretty well while holding on to furniture or your hand. Your baby may also try a tentative step on her own. Some early walkers are already on the go. Chasing your little bundle of energy can be exhausting. Make sure you take care of yourself and take time to recharge.
Eating
Babies this age are often capable of feeding themselves with finger food or a spoon. While, it won't be neat, it's good for both her fine motor skills and social development to learn how to feed herself. By 11 months, your baby's sense of taste has developed more. She may turn up her nose at something she used to like or develop a taste for something she refused in the past. Keep trying new foods to see what she likes. Keep in mind, most doctors don't recommend whole milk until a baby is over a year old. So continue to offer formula or breastmilk.
Sleeping
When it comes to sleep, you may not see a lot of changes from last month. Babies require about 14 hours of sleep a day when they are 11 months old. Although some babies still nap twice a day at this age, others are down to one nap. If bedtime is a battle, being consistent with your sleep routine may help.