
Breastfeeding your baby is the most crucial way to ensure your baby’s healthy growth in the early months of her infancy. There are many advantages of breastfeeding your little one, the most important one being the nourishment of your new-born that will lay the ground for her overall development in the years to come. Thus, it is important to know how to feed a baby to make sure you are well-acquainted with this process and ensure an effortless bonding experience between you & your bundle of joy.
Feeding Your Baby Can Mean So Much More
Studies have shown that routine touch can lead to improved physiological, cognitive, emotional and social development. Your baby’s first emotional bonds are built from physical contact, and these serve as the foundation for emotional and intellectual development later in her life.
So while you hold her in your arms, the benefits of breast feeding, which are the positive effects of your warm and loving touch along with the nutrients she needs, facilitates her happy, healthy development.
Breastfeeding
Many doctors agree that nothing is better for babies than breast milk. Nutritionally speaking, it's tailor-made for your child. It has all the vitamins and minerals that babies need, it is easier to digest than formula and is less likely to cause allergic reactions. Breastfeeding a new-born lets a mother pass on antibodies from her own immune system through her breast milk, to boost her baby's defense against infections. A mother’s milk also naturally adapts to your baby's changing needs over weeks and months.
How to feed a newborn baby: Explore
By now you must have realized how important it is to make sure your baby is getting her adequate supply of breast milk, this is her primary source of nourishment in the initial and crucial months. However, some complications can make this essential process difficult for mothers, requiring you to resort to baby formula for your baby so that she does not fall short on nutrition.
Other Ways to Nourish
Sometimes mothers cannot breastfeed due to medical problems or other special circumstances. Discuss alternatives with your pediatrician about how to feed a baby in case of such a situation. No matter how you decide to feed your baby, always be sure to so. The cuddling that comes with nursing and feeding helps in building a strong, loving bond between you and your baby, and it is important to keep that alive even when you opt for any other feeding techniques. Invite your partner to participate too— feeding time is a great opportunity for your baby and partner to feel close.
Introducing baby to solid food
As a new mother, you are already worried and confused about a number of things! You might have some doubts about breastfeeding too, a common one being how often do you need to feed a newborn baby?
It is usually recommended to exclusively breastfeed your baby as and when she needs for the first six months.
Post six months, breast milk alone doesn't provide your baby with adequate nutrients, mainly iron. Hence, you will need to slowly introduce other foods.
Waiting until six months to introduce your baby to solid food protects her health. It reduces the chances of allergies or infections through food.
When your baby reaches the six month mark, her immune system is stronger and better equipped to face any germs. Along with this, her growing body is in need for more nourishment that your breast-milk can fall short to provide. Consult your pediatrician for the best food for your little one, and slowly start introducing this in her daily diet.