
Congratulations, your baby is one month old now! How are you feeling? You might say "I am tired," "I am happy" or "I can't believe it's already one month!" Above all, give yourself a pat on the back and tell yourself how proud you are for handling all the duties of a new mom and coping with all of these changes. Being a new mom or dad is not always easy. Are you still getting enough support? Having a 4-week-old is demanding since your little one wants more entertainment now. You might notice when you put your baby down to sleep after a feeding that your baby is looking around and taking in the environment more. That means more active time with your baby and possibly less sleep. Try to not squeeze in too many daily tasks while you are in your new mommy role. Delegate household tasks to other family members, get professional help or ask friends to help out.
Postpartum depression
Postpartum depression hits about 1 out of 7 new moms. Signs of postpartum depression include sadness, feeling overwhelmed, being overly tired or not tired at all, feeling imbalanced and generally not happy. Most often this is a hormonal situation in your body that needs to get evaluated and treated by a healthcare professional. PPD is still an illness that many don't talk about, but looking at the numbers we know it happens to a lot of new moms - and even dads! If you are feeling balanced, happy and just more tired than usual, great! If you are feeling blue, don't be ashamed. The important thing is to talk to someone about it. If you notice that your partner is not the same person anymore don't hesitate to talk to your healthcare provider. Some tips for you to stay calm and relaxed
Create rituals with your baby
Babies love rituals since it makes them feel safe and helps in their development. The ritual could be to change your little one into a sleeping sack at night, sing a lullaby when changing her diaper, massage your baby every morning or a give her a baby bath every night. If Daddy (or your baby-rearing partner) always baths your baby, this brings an added layer of ritual. Encouraging your partner to be involved in this kind of activity helps pull them into the daily routine.
Sleep when your baby sleeps
Make sure you are still watching your sleep. Take a nap during the day when your baby sleeps and keep the lights dimmed when you feed your baby at night. This will show your little one that there is nothing interesting going on and she can go right back to sleep after the feeding.
Use the 5 S's to calm down your baby
Put your swaddled baby in your arms on its side against your belly while giving your finger to suckle on. Then you sway back and forth while shushing rhythmically in your baby's ear. After a few minutes your baby will calm down.
Treat yourself
What could help you regain your energy and body? Whether it's a yoga class, a walk in the park, a massage or good cup of coffee with a friend. Get out and do something for yourself or your relationship with your partner. Becoming parents is a big change and it's important to stay connected to each other and the outside world.