
By five months old, your baby is certainly showing more personality. He may be crying less and babbling more. He is also probably becoming more interested in playing. Lots of other fun changes are taking place during the fifth month.
Social and Emotional Development
You may have noticed, your baby's sense of humour is developing more. She's starting to get the joke. For instance, she may laugh when you make silly faces or use a goofy voice. Continue to encourage those adorable giggles with silly chatter. It helps your baby's social development. Along with a sense of humour, your baby may be showing a wider range of emotions, such as anger and happiness. She may express those varied emotions by grunting when she is mad or squealing when she is happy. You and your partner can help your baby's social and emotional development by just doing what you do. Every time you respond to a cry, play or cuddle your baby, you're helping her feel safe and loved.
Communication
By five months, you may have noticed your baby is honing her senses. For example, her vision is improving. She can probably see objects far and near without crossing her eyes. Your baby may also turn towards sounds. Although your 5 month old has not assigned meaning to words just yet, she may be repeating one syllable, such as "ma." She may also have discovered she can make different sounds, such as raspberries or blowing bubbles. You can help your baby's language development by continuing to talk about the world around you.
Motor Skills and Senses
Babies also learn about the world through touch and taste. By now, everything is going into your baby's mouth, so make sure you wash toys often. You can stimulate your baby's senses by venturing out different places. Take your little one to the supermarket, park or the zoo. Your 5 month old is probably not crawling yet, but she may be working towards it. When she rolls over onto her belly, she may move her legs as if she was trying to scoot. Some 5 month olds can sit up unsupported for short periods of time. But it's a good idea to help your little one master sitting by propping her up with pillows in case she topples over.
Eating
Your baby still needs breast milk or formula as her primary source of nutrition. If you are consider starting solids, talk to your paediatrician to determine if your baby is ready. Keep in mind, there is not a specific month you should start on solids, so don't feel rushed. One sign your baby may be ready for solids is a loss of the tongue thrust reflex. This reflex helps with breast or bottle-feeding, but not solids. The reflex often goes away by five or six months.
Sleeping
If last month, your baby was still getting up every three or four hours at night, by five months you may notice things are getting better in the sleep department. Your baby may be sleeping for 11 to 12 hours at night, although not straight through. Still, you're likely getting longer stretches of sleep at night. Although it varies, you can also expect your 5 month old to take two to three naps a day.