
Congratulations on the birth of your baby! While you went through a lot in order to give birth, your little one did too. Being born is the first big change in your baby's life and during the first week it's all about adjusting to a strange new world. This can mean getting used to the five senses (touch, sight, sound, taste and smell) as well as getting used to taking in food and oxygen in a new way.
Respiratory system
Your baby will cough and sneeze out amniotic fluid for the first hours in order to clean out the lungs.
Digestive system
Be on the lookout for some digestion changes in the first week, such as the release of meconium, which is the first stool that babies have. It's black and sticky and will transition into a more light-yellow-fluid stool once the intestines are fully working.
Weight
All babies will lose about 10% of their birth weight within the first days after birth so make sure you keep your precious one skin to skin with you and feed often. Babies usually return to their birth weight around day 10 of their life.
Communication
Your baby's eye sight will not be fully developed yet - the best distance to see you is the so called "breastfeeding-distance" which is when you hold your baby in your arms. You'll notice that your baby will slowly imitate funny faces that you make within a few days.
Cord
Your baby's cord will heal, but at first the area will be a bit red, bloody or have a yellowish tint to it. The stump will dry and fall off once it's healed underneath.
Genitals
The genitals can look a little bit swollen or red due to the birth. This will go away after a few days. Baby girls may have a period a few days after birth to release hormones that they received from the womb. Your baby will also release brick-dust urine which looks like red dots in the diaper. This is also normal hormonal balancing after birth
Skin
Your baby may develop jaundice and turn a little yellow within the first days after birth. This yellow skin color is a leftover product from the liver working to lower the bilirubin in the blood. Keep your baby skin to skin, expose her to lots of daylight (not sunlight) and feed a lot in order to help your baby to lower the bilirubin level on her own. And don't forget to mention the jaundice to your pediatrician so they can observe your baby closely.
Sleeping
Your baby will sleep between 15 and 18 hours in a 24 hour period. When your baby sleeps you should try to sleep as well since your normal sleep pattern will be disrupted.
Mood
The first week is all about getting to know your baby and recovering from childbirth. You might experience some self-doubt and nervousness as the reality of the situation (parenthood!) sets in. Feelings from love to anxiety, and from happiness to exhaustion, are totally normal. It's called the baby blues and usually lasts 2 weeks. Remember to be patient with yourself and practice gratitude whenever possible.
