
Just when you thought your baby could not get any more adorable, she somehow does. At four months, your baby is learning more about herself and also becoming pretty fascinated with the world around her.
Social and Emotional Development
Your baby is likely becoming more social. You may notice she copies some facial expressions, such as frowning or smiling. She is probably enjoying playing more and may even start to cry when playtime stops. If you have not already introduced music, now may be a good time to give it a shot. Some research indicates music helps babies with their intellectual and social development. Consider a baby class, or just sing to your little one. But even with all the social development going on, your baby still needs quiet time. Make sure you allow plenty of time for quiet snuggles.
Communication
Along with increased babbling, your mini-me may even be trying to imitate sounds you and your partner make. So keep talking to your baby about the world around you. Hearing the sounds letters make is good for his language development. You probably are seeing even more smiles and coos from your baby as she gets older. She may also be starting to connect that you and others respond to her actions.
Motor Skills and Senses
Your 4 month old is also getting stronger. You will probably notice good head control and she may even be able to roll over from her tummy to her back. To help your little one, make sure you're giving your baby plenty of tummy time. Tummy time helps babies develop head, shoulder and neck strength along with promoting certain motor skills. All your baby's senses are becoming more developed. For example, she may be more interested in touching objects and be fascinated with different textures. Those crinkly and fuzzy baby toys you have will come in handy to help your baby learn more about touch. It's also pretty common for 4 month olds to start realizing how their hands work. Your baby may be grabbing at everything including your hair and earrings, so be prepared! You may also notice, your baby is putting everything she finds in her mouth. While this is also how babies learn about the world around them, be sure you don't leave any small items around, which could be a choking hazard.
Eating
By four months old, your baby may have doubled her birth weight. Some parents choose to introduce solids, such as cereal at around four months. But before you do, it's best to talk to your baby's paediatrician. There are both pros and cons to starting babies on solids this early. Although it can vary, some babies may start to get their teeth by four months. You may notice your baby gnawing at her fist, drooling or becoming more irritable at times. Refrigerated tethers or topical medication may help. Talk to your baby's doctor about what's best.
Sleeping
Some 4 month olds may be sleeping for six or seven hours straight at night, which helps you or your partner get the rest you both need. If you add in a couple of naps, your baby is probably sleeping for a total of about 15 or 16 hours a day.