
Your baby is nearly one month old! Soon you will have to entertain your little one. Right now though it's still all about feeding and sleeping.
Feeding pattern
You might notice more of a pattern starting to form around feeding. Your baby will probably still require cluster-feeding at night when she needs a lot of feeding in order to have enough for the next day. But you are also able to tell whether your baby is hungry, needs a diaper change or has colic. You can try to feed a little longer in the evenings now so you can catch more sleep during the night.
Cord
The cord should have healed by now. You will see your baby's convex belly button, but during the next months the belly button will change again and probably get sucked in.
Mobility
Your baby will move more often and is stronger. You might notice that your little one can hold her head much better when you burp and that the finger grip is stronger. Some babies are also able to roll to their side when you put them down for a nap. Make sure you don't put anything else in the crib that could get in front of your baby's face.
Communication
This will be the joy of your lifetime - your baby's first smile! Between 3 and 4 weeks babies start smiling wide at their parents which will pay you back for all the sleepless nights.
Skin
You might notice that your precious one's fingernails are getting long - you can trim them very carefully with a rasp. Make sure you watch your baby's fingers closely while doing it. New born's finger nails are very soft and you can easily hurt a little finger. If you notice your baby is scratching herself in the face despite shorter nails you can put on a onesie with long sleeves and pull the sleeves over the hands or get little baby gloves for the same purpose.
Bathing
Babies have very soft skin. If you give a daily baby bath make sure your little one's skin can handle it. Sometimes the skin gets very dry-in that case, bathe your baby once or twice a week only. The right temperature for a new born bath is body temperature. The best way to find out whether the temperature is right is to feel it with your wrist rather than your hand. Your hand is much more used to temperature changes and you might think the water is too cool when in fact it's just right. Prepare a (warm) towel close by that you can put your baby in once you take her out of the tub. Right after taking a bath babies like to feed. You can wrap a dry towel around your baby after drying off and then feed right away with skin-to-skin contact.