
At 9 months, your baby is turning into quite the character. She knows what she wants, such as a favourite toy, and won't mind screaming until she gets it. Your little one is also showing her unique personality more every day.
Social and Emotional Development
As your 9 month old learns more about the world around her, stranger anxiety may get stronger. A few months ago, your baby may have been happy to be held by anyone. But now she may start to cry or act afraid of people she does not know well.
Communication
If you have not heard a "mama" or "dada" just yet, you probably will soon. Your little one is also starting to understand what certain words mean and may even respond to some commands. For example, if you say come here, she may start to crawl towards you. She may also respond to her name and use her fingers to point to objects.
Motor Skills
Babies this age are often able to pull themselves up to a standing position. Don't be surprised if you walk into your baby's room one morning and find her standing in her crib. She may also continue to cruise along the furniture. Many 9 month olds are crawling. In fact, she may be becoming an expert crawler and may even crawl up stairs. Just remember, she probably can crawl up way before she can safely make the trek down. Always supervise the climb, so she does not tumble down the stairs. Although those adorable baby shoes may be calling your name, your baby does not need shoes until she is walking. Learning to walk is easier in bare feet. Plus, going barefoot helps her develop the muscles in her feet. In addition to large motor skills, your 9 month old's fine motor skills are also improving. She is probably able to grasp small objects even better than she did last month. She is also able to coordinate hand movements better, which comes in handy for self-feeding or banging two pots together.
Eating
In addition to pureed fruits and veggies, you may want to consider starting your 9 month old on finger foods. She probably can pick up food using her thumb and finger. Cut food into tiny bites to prevent choking and let your baby try to feed herself. Some ideas for finger foods include small chunks of bananas, small pieces of a bagel and well cooked pasta spirals. If you have not introduced a Sippy cup, you may want to give it a try. By nine months, most babies will be able to get the hang of using the cup.
Sleeping
Just when you thought your baby was settling into a good sleep schedule, things may have changed. Some 9 month olds are ready to give up a nap and may be down to one or two naps a day. When it comes to overnight sleep, your baby may start to show a little resistance. She understands bedtime is the end of playtime, and that's not cool. Also, being separated from you and Dad may not be sitting too well these days. Stick to your bedtime routine. Consider giving your baby a few minutes to self-soothe and get back to sleep if she wakes crying in the middle of the night.