
Your baby is past the new born phase, and you may be feeling more relaxed about caring for your darling. You and your partner are probably learning about your baby's likes and dislikes. While there is still a lot to learn, you may be starting to feel more confident in your parenting skills.
Social and Emotional Development
You may not think a lot is going on as far as social development, but it is. As you love your baby and respond to her cries, you're building her trust, which helps her social and emotional development. Your baby still needs lots of cuddles and skin-to-skin contact, so enjoy quiet time together when you can. Research indicates that babies need touch in order to thrive. So all those cuddles are actually helping your baby's development. Her emotional development also includes her ability to self-soothe, which she does by
Communication
At two months, your little one is still mostly communicating by crying. But you may start to notice subtle differences in her cries, which helps you determine what she needs. You may also start to hear some cooing, which is your baby's way of "talking" to you.
Motor Skills
Compared to last month, your baby's movements are becoming less jerky and more fluid. She is still not super coordinated. But she is getting stronger. By this age, your baby may be able to hold her head a bit steadier. While most 2 month olds are not coordinated enough to play with toys just yet, your little one may pat at an object in front of her, such as a toy hanging from her car seat. You might also notice she is doing a lot more kicking when she is lying down, which strengthens her little legs.
Eating
At two months, your baby's nutrition comes exclusively from breast milk or formula. Although it can vary, many babies this age are still eating every three to four hours. If you're formula feeding and your baby gets frequent watery poos or a skin rash, it could be a sensitivity to milk protein. Talk to your baby's doctor to determine if you need to switch formulas.
Sleeping
Your baby's sleep patterns have not fully developed, and she may not be on a schedule yet. She may also not have her days and nights figured out. But you can help her learn the difference between daytime and night time. Keep rooms bright in the day and engage your baby in activities, such as playing and reading. At bedtime, keep lights low and do soothing activities, such as a bath and cuddles. If you're still waking every few hours to feed your baby, hang in there. Your little one is getting closer to sleeping for longer stretches at night.
Sucking
Two months old babies have a strong sucking reflex. Your baby may like to suck on a pacifier, her fist or a finger.
Vision
Most babies this age also start following objects with their eyes. At two months, your baby's vision is not as sharp as an adult's, but it is improving.
Real Smile
One exciting developmental milestone you may see this month is your baby's first real smile. Although the timing can be different, most babies flash a toothless grin by about two months.
