
At seven months, your baby may be excited about all she is learning to do. You may also be fascinated by her antics, which often keep you laughing. It's a fun time for baby and mom and dad!
Social and Emotional Development
Up until now, your little one may have thought objects are gone forever if they are out of sight. But your 7 month old is starting to understand the concept of object permanence. This developmental milestone indicates your baby understands that when an object is out of sight it still exists. Understanding this concept creates more opportunities for games, such as peek-a-boo. Keep playing because not only does your baby enjoy games, they help her with her overall development.
Communication and Language Development
Your 7 month old is not only learning more ways to use her voice, but she is also starting to understand certain words. For example, if you or Dad says no, she may understand what it means. But don't be surprised if she does not always follow that command. She may also recognize her name. Babies this age are also getting to be pretty good at nonverbal communication. For instance, your baby can make a lot of facial expressions from big grins to big frowns. She may also wave bye-bye and even blow.
Motor Skills
7 month olds are often on the move, and may be creative about how they get around. Your baby may crawl, scoot, roll or combine different types of movements. Keep in mind, some babies go straight from commando crawling to walking and skip crawling on their hands and knees. Consider holding your baby under her arms and allow her to stand upright, putting some weight on her legs. She's probably still pretty wobbly, so don't let go. But putting weight on her legs can strengthen muscles and get her ready for walking. You may notice, your 7 month old is starting to grasp things using her first finger and thumb. This is called the pincher reflex, and it means your little one is developing better fine motor skills.
Eating
By seven months, you may be feeding your baby solid food. So how much should you be feeding her? Just like grown-ups, babies eat different amounts. Your 7 month old may be eating about seven or eight ounces of solids spread out over two or three meals. Most babies can self-regulate and will show signs they have had enough. For instance, your baby may close her mouth, turn her head away from the spoon or spit the food out. Follow your baby's cues and don't force, "just one more bite." Although teething patterns vary from baby to baby, many 7 month olds will have a few teeth by now. Dentists recommend gently brushing your baby's teeth with water and a soft baby toothbrush.
Sleeping
You may get lucky, and your baby may be sleeping for as much as 11 hours straight at night. Also, babies still need a few naps during the day, which add another three or four hours sleep to the total. If your baby is still waking up many times throughout the night, talk with your paediatrician.