
The world is a laboratory for your baby to understand life. You might notice your baby watching things more at 7 weeks and there may even be periods of quiet where she is taking it all in. You can feel free to talk to your baby and describe things even though she cannot yet understand you. It's time to begin considering a baby carrier and the proper way to carry your little one. There are so many options and you may want to try a few with your baby to see which one she likes. The main question always is: Do I carry my baby in or out? The answer is always carry your baby facing in. Here are 7 reasons to not carry your baby facing out:
Babies like to nap.
When a baby falls asleep on the parent while being carried on your chest, it will have the beneficial opportunity of sleeping with its head gently turned to one side or the other. This will also allow for cuddle time. Leaning against the parent also stimulates a huge amount of neurological integration and development for the baby.
Squat or Straddle position
You might notice that when you pick up your baby, she will instinctively draw the legs into a squat/straddle position. The best position for your baby's legs in a carrier are when the knees are up above the developing hips and your baby is in a squatting posture. If you put your little one in an outward-facing-carrier, her legs dangle down. This is not only un supportive of normal hip development, it may have negative effects.
Balance yourself
Your back will hurt when you have your baby face out. You will notice that you need to shift your hips in order to balance your little one with dangling legs out. The reason is that you put strain on your spine. In order to stay aligned make sure to turn your baby facing inward.
Spine and Nervous System
If your baby faces outward you constantly need to hold your baby's legs up or the feet. Your baby will grasp your fingers because it's off-balance in this position and they have nothing to hold on to. At the same time your little one will lean it's pelvis back (while you shift your hips forward) for balance. This is unhealthy for hip development and adds stress to the spine and nervous system.
Your baby wants to bond with you
If your little one faces outward there is no familiar face or "filter". Your baby won't feel very safe because she can't see you. Facing outward deprives babies of their natural.