
At week 6 your baby is not only smiling but wanting to play. At this age babies will really enjoy some toys or a baby bridge they can gaze at to keep them fascinated. Whether it's a sibling playing with them, finger games, a blanket with different textures, a swim class or a baby play group, stimulation of the right amount is well received. Dad (or your partner) might want to have baby bonding time. Take advantage and rest up while they are connecting and having fun!
Crying peak!
Usually at 6 weeks babies have a crying peak. Nobody really knows what causes this, but many ask “is it tummy troubles?" and the answer is a definite "maybe." When nothing you do seems to soothe your baby's crying, it can feel as if your "I love you, baby" is met with a screeching wail that suggests the sentiment is not reciprocated. If you are not sure whether your baby has "world pain" or is actually colicky here is a colic crying checklist:
Get a doctor's exam
Get a thorough exam to make sure there is nothing physically causing pain. 
Sleep times
Watch the clock as well as your baby's sleepy cues. Colicky babies can be difficult to read and are more sensitive to sleep needs.
Rhythm and sound
Go back to the 5 S's we learned about last week. Soothing your baby with these can help to calm her down. 
Listen
Once you have figured out the timetable for your baby's crying spells you can soothe her beforehand. Reduce stimuli, swaddle or introduce white noise before the time that your baby usually starts crying. 
Feeding 
Feed your baby in an upright position, and keep the head elevated for 15 minutes after each feeding to reduce discomfort from acid reflux. Some degree of acid reflux is common.
Mentally prepare
If your baby does have intense crying spells, go in knowing that it's not your fault. In fact, it's not even a reaction to you. Your little one is just having a hard time and letting you (and anyone else within earshot) know about it!
Positions to relieve gas
There are some positions that babies who are colicky or cry a lot usually like. Try cradling your baby on her belly in your arms so your underarm is creating some pressure against the belly. Or you can try to massage your baby's belly gently clockwise around the navel. Moving the legs up and down can also help to relief gas. Or sit down with your legs closed and put your crying bundle of joy in your lap facing you. Your baby's legs push in your belly, you wrap your arms around your baby's body and your hands around your baby's head. Get very close and talk gently to your baby.