
It may be hard to believe your baby is already six months old. You'll probably see a lot of developmental milestones this month. But it's also important for moms and dads to understand, each baby is a unique individual and may do things at their own pace. If you're concerned about something, don't hesitate talking to your paediatrician.
Social and Emotional Development
Your 6 month old may be quite the social butterfly. She is probably charming everyone she meets and may enjoy the interaction and attention she gets from others. You may also be discovering what type of temperament your baby has. Although it can vary, babies may start to develop separation anxiety as early as six months. Separation anxiety is a normal developmental milestone. It's a sign your baby is attaching to you, your partner and other caregivers. Keep in mind, being around people other than you and your partner is good for your baby's development. Just be patient and ease your baby into situations with new caregivers.
Communication
Your budding conversationalist may be learning new ways to "talk" every day. She may make different sounds, such as yelling and squealing. She may also be putting together vowels and consonants to make new sounds. All this experimenting is not only cute, but it's your baby's way of learning how to talk.
Motor Skills
Babies this age may be sitting up unsupported. Your baby may also be able to scoot a bit when she is on her tummy. In fact, she may even be commando crawling on her tummy. But don't worry if she is not starting to crawl just yet. For now she may be content to just watch the world around her. Putting an object on the floor just out of her reach is one way to encourage your little one to work on those crawling skills. If you have not baby proofed your house, now is a good time, since your 6 month old is becoming more mobile.Your baby's fine motor skills are also improving. She may be able to pick up smaller objects with her fingers. She may also be able to transfer objects from one hand to another. Continue to give your baby a variety of toys that encourage the development of fine motor skills. Toys with vibrant colours and different textures encourage your baby to practice her grabbing skills. Just be sure there are no choking hazards since your baby likes to chomp on everything she finds.
Eating
Your baby may also be able to hold her own bottle. But don't prop a bottle up and leave your little one. The liquid can pool in her mouth, which can lead to choking. By six months, your baby's appetite is growing. If you have not started solids, you may want to give it a try this month. Usually, your baby's doctors will advise you to start with rice cereal, which is easy to digest. You may also want to try pureed foods, such as sweet potatoes, carrots and bananas. Introduce solids slowly, starting with a couple of teaspoons.
Sleeping
Although all babies are different, your 6 month old may be sleeping at night for a total of about 14 hours with stretches as long as six to eight hours. She still also needs a couple of naps a day. Keep in mind, if your baby has not started teething, it may start soon, which can interfere with sleep.