
Your baby is getting bigger and stronger all the time. She knows the difference between strangers and familiar faces, which may mean separation anxiety is a bit of a problem. Your 10 month old is making strides in all areas of her development from language to motor skills. It's hard to believe in only ten months, your baby hardly resembles the tiny new born you first held in your arms.
Social and Emotional Development
By 10 months, your baby is becoming quite the sleuth. She is figuring out how things work and what goes where. Her memory is also improving. She may recognize familiar faces, such as the babysitter, even if she has not seen her in a few weeks. But as your baby understands more, she may become fearful of things that never bothered her before, such as loud noises or the dishwasher.
Communication
Your 10 month old is continuing to make sounds that are coming closer to actual words. Some early talkers may even be saying a few words. But you might have to wait a month or two to hear mama or dada. Although they don't have an extensive vocabulary just yet, babies this age are becoming skilled at nonverbal communication. For instance, your baby may shake her head "no", wave bye-bye and point at things. Continue to help her language development by talking to your baby, playing games and reading to her. Books with flaps and textures may be a big hit for a 10 month old.
Motor Skills
Babies this age may be able to get around a few different ways. Your baby may be crawling, standing and even attempting a few steps. Walking may be just around the corner. She may enjoy showing off her new skills every chance she gets. Make sure to continue to provide plenty of opportunities for safe exploration around your home. Your baby may also be getting more coordinated. She may be able to hold a toy in one hand and do something else with the other.
Eating
Up until this point, your baby may have been growing by leaps and bounds. But her growth may be slowing a bit, which can result in a little less interest in food. It's nothing to worry about. She'll pick up the pace when she hits her next growth spurt. Consider piquing her interest in food by expanding her menu. Try combination foods, such as macaroni and cheese or bite size pieces of soft vegetables including peas and carrots. Keep in mind, in addition to three meals a day, your baby still needs 500 to 600 ml of formula or breast milk. Since your baby's fine motor skills are improving, consider giving her a spoon and let her try feeding herself. It may not be pretty, but her proud grin will be worth the mess.
Sleeping
By 10 months, your baby may have decided to ditch a nap and is down to one a day. But if your little one is still napping twice a day, no worries. Whether your baby naps once or twice a day may depend on how many hours she sleeps overnight.