
Hurray, you made it through the first two weeks as a parent! By now you will probably feel more secure with your little one and your baby-blues should have diminished. Your hormones are stabilizing, but if you still feel overly emotional, cry a lot or can't sleep, make sure you have a lot of support around you.
Fourth trimester
Your baby is now in the "Fourth trimester" and you might encounter a bit more crying. Babies cry more after about 2 weeks since they are more alert and crying is the only way (for them) to communicate their needs. As a parent it can be stressful, but there is a lot you can do in order to help your baby to better transition into this new world.
Wear your baby 
Get a sling that you and your baby like and make sure your baby is snug towards your body and facing inward. This re-creates a womb-like feeling for your little one and crying-peaks will be much less intense.
Skin to skin contact
Skin-to-skin contact continues to be very beneficial for both parents and baby. Your baby's blood-sugar, breathing and circulation will stabilize and they will latch on better when they've been skin-to-skin before feedings. Both moms and dads relax when their baby is on the chest and this calms your baby down as well.
Give your baby a bath 
By now the umbilical cord most likely fell off and it's time for your baby's first bath. Soothing water surrounding your baby creates an environment similar to what she was used to in the womb.
Swaddle your baby
Swaddling your baby with a breathable wrap is another way to create a sense of security that was felt in the womb, resulting in a more settled baby who cries less and sleeps better. Make sure you don't wrap your baby too tightly (this has been linked to hip dysplasia) but let your baby's legs be a bit more loose in the swaddle.
Breastfeed
Breastfeed your baby whenever she wants. New born babies feed often, because they will be working to establish supply and re-filling their fast-emptying, tiny tummy.
Move your baby
Babies like to be pushed around in a stroller, rocked or bounced in a crib or carried in a sling. This buoyant and fluid type of movement reminds them of the womb.
White noise
Find some white noise your baby might like since they are used to hearing the sounds of the womb. There were digestion noises, your heartbeat, sounds from the outer world and blood rushing by. If you re-create a balanced noise-level it will help your baby to calm down. You can use a CD with heartbeat-sounds, ocean waves, soft music or your vacuum cleaner, and of course the Lullabies and White Noise tools.
