
Your baby is three months' old, and you're probably starting to get the hang of this parenting thing. You may have settled into a schedule, or your routine may vary from day to day. Either way, your 3 month old has changed from a tiny newborn to an active infant.
Social and Emotional Development
One cool thing you may notice is your baby is starting to figure out who's who. While you can't expect your little one to say mama or dada just yet, your baby may be showing signs of parental recognition. For example, when your baby sees you, she may kick her legs with excitement or smile at the sound of your voice. Not only is your baby's brain developing rapidly, her senses are also becoming more active. For example, you may notice your baby turns her head towards sounds. Your 3 month old also thrives on touch, so continue to spend a lot of time snuggling and cuddling. Partners, you should also make time for skin to skin contact.
Communication
Your baby has been communicating since day one by crying. You have probably figured out what type of cry means what. By the time your baby is three months' old, you may notice she is also trying to communicate by cooing and making other sounds. Although you probably already know your baby is a genius, research indicates talking to your little one can increase their I.Q. even more. So keep singing, reading and talking to your baby as much as possible. It's good for their brain development.
Motor Skills
In addition to learning more about the world around them, your 3 month old's motor skills and eye-hand coordination are also developing more. Those adorable kicks may be getting a bit more coordinated and stronger. Your baby may also be gaining more upper body strength. There may be very little head wobbling at this point. Also don't be surprised if your baby starts swiping at things placed in front of her. Your little one is learning to do new things each day, such as opening and closing her hands and bringing her hands to her mouth.
Eating
Your 3 month old's menu is still limited to formula or breastmilk. Although you should always follow the advice of your paediatrician, most doctors don't advise starting solids this early. If you're breastfeeding and have not introduced a bottle yet, you may want to consider pumping, which allows others to take over some of the feedings. Partners, you may feel there is not much you can do to help with feedings if your partner is nursing. But you can still get involved. For example, you can take over burping duty and put your little one back to bed after late night feedings.
Sleeping
Most 3 month old babies sleep for about 15 hours a day, which includes their naps and night time sleep. Although your baby may not exactly be sleeping through the night yet, she may be starting to sleep for longer stretches at night. But if you're still getting up every couple of hours, hang in there. As your baby's nervous system continues to develop, and her stomach can handle more milk, she will sleep for longer periods at night. If you have not started a bedtime routine, now may be a good time to try one.