
How did a year go by so fast? Your baby has come a long way. She went from a helpless new born to an increasingly independent little person with her own unique personality.
Social and Emotional Development
Your baby was starting to learn object permanence a few months back. Now she probably has a pretty good understanding of the concept. This means she may look for hidden objects and people including you or Dad when you leave the room. Although your 12 month old still needs plenty of care, she may be able to do some things on her own. For example, she may be able to turn the page of a book, feed herself and even help while you are getting her dressed. Babies this age often enjoy being around other babies. If you are not in a play group, you may want to consider joining one.
Communication
As she gets closer to using real words, you may notice your baby is babbling with more inflection. Your baby also understands the meaning of more words now. For example, she may say "dada" and know she is referring to Daddy. She is also paying close attention to gestures and may try to mimic words you say. One way you can help your baby's language development is by pointing to objects and asking her what they are.
Motor Skills
Move out of the way Mom and Dad, you have a little mover and shaker on your hands. At 12 months, your little one may be less and less content to sit in her swing or high chair and watch the world go by. She has got places to see and people to meet. She may always want to be on the move exploring. Most babies this age are getting around by crawling, cruising or walking. If your 12 month old has not taken her first step just yet, don't worry. Some babies don't walk until they are a few months past their first birthday. Some 12 month old babies love to climb. Make sure your environment has been baby proofed with climbing in mind. For instance, slide kitchen chairs under the table and store step stools away from counters. Use approved baby gates to prevent your baby from falling down the stairs.
Eating
By one year, your baby can start to transition from formula or breastmilk to whole milk. Don't use skim or low-fat milk, your baby needs the fat for proper brain development. If you are breastfeeding and want to continue a bit longer, do what works for you and your baby. Most 12 month olds are eating a variety of finger foods, so be careful to avoid choking hazards. Wait until she is older to give her certain foods, such as hot dogs and whole grapes, which are easy to choke on.
Sleeping
Babies this age need on average between 13 and 14 hours of sleep each day. 12 month old babies still need a nap in the afternoon. But the morning nap may be a thing of the past. The length of your baby's nap may vary. Some days she may nap for thirty minutes, other times it's an hour or two.